Hello and welcome back.
This lecture I want to provide a solution for our previous challenge was which was implementing the
adapter design pattern using an object adapter to solve the problem of two incompatible interfaces basically
a Advanced Media interface and a media player interface.
Advanced Media Player interface.
So we're gonna create a project we'll just name it adapter solution since solution to our challenge.
And we'll call it the adapter solution
we're gonna start off by creating our interfaces so we'll be right.
One interface for the media player.
This is the target interface.
And so we'll name this media player be an interface and then we're gonna create another interface which
will be our adapter he's called Advanced Media Player
and this will also be actually in the supply.
Good to have the interface name Vance Media Player interface will rename Media Player to media player
interface as well.
Player interface we have to create a couple of concrete classes for both of these we'll start with the
Advanced Media Player and we're gonna create a.
Actually we have to finish the implementation of these interfaces.
So the Advanced Media Player has a load file name
and name.
And this takes a string for the following.
It also has a listen method.
Our media player interface got our media player interface that's good.
Thought I was in the wrong file just has a play method taking an audio type
and a file name
but these two interfaces are incompatible.
The media player interface you're gonna notice can only implement and play a certain type of files and
then we'll see that when we implement these concrete classes.
First let's implement the conquer class for the advanced play a media interface.
We're gonna create a V L C player which implements this interface so public class v Chelsea player employ
implements the Advanced Media Player interface.
It's gonna have a member variable my file.
We're gonna implement the overridden method the two methods in here which is public void Load File Name
That takes a file name.
And this is just gonna set
I remember variable.
So we're gonna say my file equals file name.
And then the other one is going to say Have a listen method
and this is going to just display some output saying it's actually playing or listening to the music.
So it's kind of just hard code some information playing DLC file name
is equal to my file.
Pretty straightforward.
That's our field C player.
We're also going to have an MP for player that implements this interface and it's gonna do pretty much
the exact same thing.
It's just going to play MP for files so here we would have pretty much the same thing except the name
of the class as MP for player.
It's still going to implement this interface it's going to have its own my file it's going to load and
listen the audio player that implements the media player interface is gonna play MP 3s play MP 3 so
we'll just call this class public class audio player
and this implements the media player interface.
So this is going to have an over and method for play.
This is gonna allow us to play MP 3 files.
This is implemented a little bit differently and that it actually has an if statement inside there so
string it takes an audio type and file name
and it's gonna check what the type is and then determine whether or not to play it and if it doesn't
have the right type it's going to ignore it.
So we're gonna do something like this.
The other type equals ignore case MP 3 play the MP 3 if it doesn't.
Just say the auto type is not supported something like that.
So you should notice with this implementation that the media play interface is very restrictive.
It can only play MP 3s.
We want to make sure that it can play advanced media like our MP force and I fixed all those red squiggles
to make in what was happening was I had public in front of all the class names so those have to be in
their own separate file and I don't want to do that so I just made him default access.
Now we can write our adapter interface which will allow us to play other formats.
So we're gonna say new Java class and we're gonna say Advanced Media Player adapter.
This is going to implement a media player right here we're following the implementation of the adapter
object implementation implements Media Player
interface.
And the first thing you need to do in the adapter is you need to have an instance of the adapter.
So we're gonna say Advanced Media Player interface
advanced music player our constructor is gonna set our Advanced Media Player to our instance so public
Advanced Media Player adapter it's gonna take an advanced media player interface my media player
and this is again just going to set our advanced music player to are my media player standard stuff
for the adapter.
Now we need to override our play
because we're implementing the media play interface our target.
So play and this remember takes a string audio type and a file name.
So this is where we have to do the conversion.
What we're gonna do is we're in a call a couple methods on our advanced music player.
First thing we have to do for advanced music music as we first have to load the file name in order to
listen to the music.
So we're gonna say Load File name
until essence load file name with the one passed in and then we're gonna say listen
and I have to select the right one.
Listen.
All right.
That's doing our conversion whenever we call play on the media play interface and we want to play advanced
music use the adapter that's going to first load the file and then listen whereas before the media player
interface always had different implementation right.
You had to use the audio type.
We don't need that for the adapter.
So our last thing is to create our client you Java class client which demonstrates the use of the adapter.
We're gonna create a new media player
Media Player interface sorry you say audio player and this is going to be just a new audio player and
then we're gonna try to play that.
So we're gonna say audio player that play and we're gonna play let's make sure audio player play we
need to have the sort of main method
which I always forget.
Here we go.
So now we can play our audio player and we're gonna play type which is MP 3.
It's only one that's supported in this particular player and we're just going to play you know Jason's
music.
And MP 3 we also want to play other formats.
So in this case we're gonna create some new MP forms and some new V LC players.
Now we're only gonna play be able to play that through the interface by using the adapter.
So first we need to create our MP for player which we'll do here.
So we're gonna say Advanced Media Player interface MP for player Media Player interface which is our
adapter scroll this over remember the adapter just takes the concrete class and then we're going to
try to play it.
So we should be able to call a play on the right one.
So we say Advanced Media Player adapter 1 that play and then we can do it again for our v LC player.
We create a new V LC player instance we pass that into our adapter and we hit play.
So here we just do something similar.
Make sure they're the interface
Advanced Media Player interface.
The Chelsea player and I had to spell it correctly
and then also our media player interface.
And then again we play this with just some kind of name.
All right.
Advanced Media Player adapter 2 that play DLC with quick quotations
and just some far far away so we could then try playing another format that's not supported in open
display matches saying it's not supported so let's try to play something like Navy file here we would
just say Advanced Media Player adapter to not play v DLC and that will hit the if statement inside of
the audio player and it will not play it.
All right so here we would say play it would try to load and listen and it would fail.
Actually this one when use the adapter would try to play it using the audio player so this would be
audio player.
Now if we try to build us and run it we should see we're playing an empty three file while playing a
v LC file and are playing another v LC file so something's wrong here.
Should be safe playing MP for file.
It looks like we may have.
Yeah we've got out the wrong string for the MP for.
Forgot to update that.
So I should say I'm for and then if we build and run it we'll see the correct output which is good.
We're playing an MP 3 file before file v LC file then we've invalid media format but we're using the
adapter very nicely.
So now the client can use the media player interface to play other types and be foreign v LC So that's
an easy solution for the adapter design pattern implementing it an object adapter.
Felt this was helpful if you have any questions you can ask in the Q and A.
Thank you.